First let's answer this question, what is a repository?
Coming back to the domain driven design definition,
a repository acts as a mediator between the domain and the data layer.
The domain being the Book entity and the data layer
being the H2 relational database.
This means that in our case the repository is able to retrieve
books objects from a relational database.
A repository provides a centralized facade over some backend store,
here a relational database.
So this is where we will find methods that giving an
identifier will return a Book, for example,
or giving a Book object,
it persists a book into a database and returns the created book.
Another method we find in our repository is one that given an
identifier deletes a book and returns void.
What do we do now to make these database calls happen?
We need to use the Entity Manager from JPA.
In the previous module we've seen the JPA has some
annotations to customize the database mapping.
But that's not enough.
JPA also has an Entity Manager,
which is the central API to perform database-related operations.
JPA being an abstraction above JDBC,
it makes it possible to be independent of the underlying databases.
So as developers,
we don't need to use SQL statements to interact with the database.
CRUD operations as are easy as a simple method call.
We can create, read, update, delete data just by using the Entity Manger API,
no SQL statement.
So let's take back our BookRepository class.
The first thing to do is to inject the EntityManager.
As you can see,
the name of the persistence unit is the one that we've
previously defined in the persistence.
xml, bookStorePU.
Then let's look at the find method.
The find method takes an identifier and needs to
return a book from the database.
To do that we just invoke the find method of the Entity Manager, that's it.
Thanks to JPA the mapping with the database will be done automatically,
the SQL statement will be generated and executed using JDBC.
One line of code and all the Java EE magic happens.
Creating a book follows the same logic,
it invokes the persist method on the Entity Manager that
inserts the book into the database.
Deleting a book from the database requires two operations.
First,
we need to get a reference of the book from the database and then invoke the remove method of the Entity Manager.